If your friend wanted you to join them to
explore the gates of hell underneath the catacombs,
what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the characters, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the hell caves in, As Above So Below.
If you think you have a better way, let me
know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
Before we ridicule the characters for being
morons for the next 20 minutes, I want to
say thank you to everyone for being a part
of this channel.
I love talking about this stuff, and it’s
cool to see that so many other people do too.
So yah, thank you!
Alright, let’s get to it.
We start out following a wannabe Lara Croft
who trespasses into an Iranian cave in search
of historical treasures.
Apparently these treasures are worth dying
for, because the Iranian military is just
about to demolish the cave she’s going into.
The timing works out though, because in mere
seconds, she finds the lost satanic statue
that her dad was looking for his whole life.
She’s forced to retreat when the demolition
countdown draws down.
In her escape she runs into a random dude
hanging from the ceiling.
It’s pretty creepy.
Before she can process what the fuck is going
on, the cave starts exploding.
Scarlett makes it out of the cave just in
time, narrowly avoiding being buried alive.
Thanks for telling me that now.
And if that’s the case, why are you putting
on open tours to what is essentially a map
for finding the stone?
How do you even know that everyone who chased
Flamel’s stone died.
Have you already shown this map to lots of
other people, which led them to their deaths,
if so, why are you putting on open tours to
it?
Then again, if everyone looking for it is
as reckless as Scarlett, i’m not sure it’s
a mystery why everyone’s ending up dead.
We cut over to a much more cheery Scarlett,
being interviewed at an archaeological dig
site in Paris.
I guess seeing the apparition of a dead guy
hanging from the cave ceiling where she found
a mysterious satanic statue was something
she didn’t feel the need to reflect on at
all.
I’m gonna fast-forward through a lot of
Nicolas Cage National Treasure stuff here,
but basically Scarlett is still hunting for
the philosopher's stone, which is a mythical
substance that was said to turn base metal
into gold and grant humans immortality.
From all the raging clues they have, they
deduce where the stone might be.
Naturally, it’s in a pretty inconvenient
location.
They’d just need to go down into the catacombs,
hop over the off-limits barriers, crawl through
some bone-filled corridor, slip past the gates
of hell without anyone noticing, and carefully
snatch the stone while tossing a bag of sand
in its place.
Personally, if I was looking for the immortality
stone, which our previous tour guide said
is a death sentence, then I started seeing
apparitions of dead people, and the next step
in the journey was to enter the gates of hell,
I think I'd take a knee, grab an eclair and
visit the Eiffel Tower instead.
But Scarlett’s not going to be phased by
this, I mean earlier she jumped into a cave
that was about to be demolished in minutes.
Scarlett and Benji, her cameraman do some
recon by joining a tour of the catacombs.
A stranger that’s kickin it in the catacombs
overhears Scarlett, and tells her about a
group that can help them into the off-limits
area.
Sounds legit.
The tour guide distracts them by urging them
to stay with the group, and when they look
back, the guy had Jason Bourned out of there.
In the time before they looked back he definitely
could have left through that right corridor,
but he’d have to be really quick and sneaky,
which is odd because he was originally just
chilling with his Etch-A-Sketch.
Even if I wanted to continue to find the stone,
I don’t think I'd want to take the advice
of some sneaky strange dude in the catacombs.
That sounds like a good way to get Taken,
and Benji doesn’t seem to have the very
particular set of skills needed in that situation.
Bringing in outside help and leading an official
expedition to find and excavate the philosopher’s
stone from deep inside the catacombs is unlikely
to be approved, so going in secretly is their
only real option.
They hit up the club to find Papillon so he
can help them enter the off-limits area.
What the fuck is up with that chick.
There must be some good shit at the party.
Okay, she's obviously infatuated with us,
but why.
No random girl at a club is going to check
you out like that unless you’re Magic Mike.
It’s probably a good idea to keep an eye
on your drink so you don’t wake up in a
bathtub with a kidney missing.
Lara croft finds her new tour guide to lead
them into the gates of hell, oh wait, she
didn’t mention that part to Papillon, oh
well.
Only George, Benji, and Scarlett know that
they are headed towards the mythological gates
of hell, but Scarlett is the only one that
has actually seen a ghost on her quest to
find the stone.
Nobody but Scarlett has any reason to believe
that there might be terrible things awaiting
them, and she might just think her mind played
tricks on her.
Considering the stone and treasures would
be a huge discovery, and there’s not really
a strong reason to believe they will actually
enter hell, calling the hunt off is not reasonable.
It is dangerous though.
While they prepare to enter the catacombs,
Benji asks one of Papi’s team members a
quick last minute question.
I’m glad safety is coming first.
This stone has never been found, and I don’t
think anyone else is hot on Scarlett’s trail.
I think they can afford a few days to mull
over the plan.
I’m no Les Stroud, but I am known for my
pro Wiki-how survivor tips.
Seriously though, this knowledge is 100% relevant
to the crew's survival as you’ll see later.
The Paris catacombs is a nearly 200 mile long
maze of pitch black tunnels that are easy
to get lost in.
In 2017, two teenagers got lost, and it took
a whole Fire Brigade and cataphile operation
to rescue them 3 days later.
Cataphiles are people that frequently explore
the off-limits areas.
Not to mention the area the teens got lost
in was considered to be a very “touristy”
beginners area of the off-limits zone by the
cataphiles.
I know they expect to only be down there for
a few hours, but with what they are doing,
they could easily end up down there for multiple
days if something goes wrong.
Here’s what I would bring:
Basic stuff like a First-Aid kit, and extra
food and water.
Waterproof headlamps with spares and extra
batteries.
Miners lamps for backup light and a heat source.
A helmet is pretty much a no brainer.
Thermal blankets because at 55 degrees down
there, it‘s cold enough to give you hypothermia
if exposed for over a day or two.
Wetsuits and goggles, waterproof boots, and
waterproof bags to hold their gear and spare
dry clothes because they might have to go
through tunnels that are flooded with freezing
water.
Freezing water pulls heat from your body 25
times faster than air, so if you don’t stay
dry you’re looking at hypothermia in hours
instead of days.
Abrasion resistant caving oversuits for crawling
around.
Since they will probably need to go up or
down shafts, bringing multiple ropes with
harnesses and gloves, as well as other proper
cave rappelling gear including ascenders,
descenders, and rope protectors.
The ropes need to be placed in waterproof
bags, because a wet rope can be 40-70% weaker,
and is much more likely to be sliced through
by a jagged edge.
Line markers to know your way back, but also
for rescue teams since you’re going into
an area that’s designed to not be found.
Other good precautions to take would include
making sure everyone in the search group is
aware of all the dangers and conditions.
You can’t have phobias of confined spaces,
rats, or cobwebby bones, because you can’t
exactly leave whenever you start feeling sick.
I know they’re trying to be secretive, but
telling a trusted friend beforehand, that
you are going into the catacombs via this
entrance and taking this route, as well as
when you expect to be back, is always a good
idea.
There’s honestly so much more to cover.
The bigger point though, is that after a couple
hours of reading about cave exploration, I
realized I don’t know jack shit about cave
exploration.
Maybe I should back off until I get the proper
gear, training, and guide instead of grabbing
some rope off the wall boondock saints style
and jumping into an uncharted cave half-cocked.
You’re also far from justice.
An important rule that Cataphiles state, is
to never trust anyone else unless you really
know them well because you are basically at
their mercy.
Obviously Scarlett is breaking this rule by
finding a guide in a nightclub.
Scarlett’s crew decides to ignore most of
what I mentioned and hastily enter the catacombs
with a bunch of strangers.
George obviously hasn’t learned anything
from his time in a Turkish prison, which he
was thrown into because of Scarlett's shenanigans,
and Benji is naive enough to ignore George’s
warnings about how dangerous she is.
Things quickly go south once they reach the
secret catacomb entrance.
Yah, the police wouldn’t do that.
It’s illegal, but generally speaking it's
a slap on the wrist and a 60 euro fine.
Getting into a brawl with a cop and throwing
smoke bombs at them probably isn’t wise,
and they’ll be unlikely to help you if you
need to be rescued later.
I’d take the fine and come back later.
All in all, it’s a great way to start their
expedition, panicked and stressed.
What was that precaution about not entering
caves with people that are afraid of them?
I know they were forced to enter the catacombs,
but generally you’d want to find a close
exit to let this guy out first so he doesn’t
become a danger to others.
Something tells me they are going to force
this guy to come with them into the uncharted
cave network instead.
Graffiti is one way to mark your way back
I guess..
But yah basically they don’t use any line
markers like we talked about.
Notice how they don’t have the proper shoes
or clothing setup, considering they knew they
were going to be wading through freezing cold
water at the start of their trip.
Yep.
Oh shit it’s that creepy chick from the
party.
She is a freak.
And this is where the gloves and caving oversuit
would be helpful.
They really are not prepared at all for things
they knew they’d run into.
What the fuck did you think you were going
to be doing when exploring the off limits
areas of the catacombs.
Again, nobody in this group is on the same
page here.
And here we encounter the classic shortcut
mistake.
Scarlett wants to save a few hours off the
trip by taking an unknown route.
Where do I remember this from, oh yah, The
Ritual.
That didn’t work out well for them.
I’m with the tour guide.
A map doesn’t tell you shit, and we know
nothing about this tunnel.
Urban legends and evil mythology aside, if
the guide's friend, La Taupe, knew these tunnels
like the back of his hand and never returned
from that tunnel, at the very least it’s
just plain dangerous.
Luckily, they follow Papi’s lead.
Of course they brought a dude into the catacombs
that is scared of bones, rats, and confined
spaces.
Good job team.
I like how George’s brother died in a fucking
cave and he isn’t as panicky as Benji.
To be fair, the satanic cult chanting in the
background is unnerving.
Benji just nearly avoids becoming a permanent
resident of the catacombs when the tunnel
collapses behind him.
The train really goes off the rails when they
end up at a dead end, which was impossible
according to Papi, as he knows this area well.
Since Benji caused the tunnel to collapse,
the only way out now is the same evil tunnel
they avoided earlier.
Maybe Papi just got turned around somehow,
but continuing deeper into the collapsing
off-limits area when you are already cut-off
from your exit route probably isn’t the
smartest move.
I’d call off the hunt right here.
Since we would’ve told a friend where we
were going, and used line markers, we’d
be here for half a day at most before getting
rescued.
You can come back later once the tunnel is
cleared.
Scarlett decides to boldly forge on through
the evil tunnel, and immediately things get
weird.
They see Papi’s tag on the wall, but he
swears he never entered this place.
He seems to be genuinely freaked out and not
fucking with us, but then again, can we really
trust the tour guide we met at a nightclub?
Okay.. how about fuck no.
Now I’d definitely go back and chill at
the collapsed tunnel and wait for help.
Since our protagonists didn’t let anyone
know or use line markers, their only option
is to push forward as it’s unlikely anyone
will find them for days.
The weirdness continues when they find an
old piano.
George says that it's the same type of piano
he had when he was a kid, except the A4 key
was dead.
I feel like I should break out the banana
split analogy from the Polaroid video I did.
I don’t know what we are up to, maybe the
3 scoops of get the fuck out ice cream?
What do you guys think?
Scarlett has the bright idea to keep moving
forward despite all this creepy stuff happening.
She runs off further into the tunnel by herself.
She really wanted to know who was calling.
George was right, this chick is nuts.
They chase after her and catch up once she
finds the ringing phone.
Papi’s tag showing up in unexplored tunnels,
weird.
The piano, highly coincidental and very spooky.
A phone ringing without any electricity, this
is the first truly impossible thing they’ve
encountered.
Scarlett answers the phone.
I was expecting Samara to give her 7 days,
but I'm pretty sure the guy on the other line
is thinking more like today instead.
The impossibility continues as the man knows
it’s Scarlett on the phone.
And I'd be back to the collapsed tunnel, line
markers or not.
Clearly the gates of hell wasn’t just an
urban legend.
I’m just going to cover a bunch of other
warning signs they blow past real quickly
as there are literally too many.
There’s probably 3 banana splits worth of
warnings before people start dying.
All the previously mentioned stuff, plus:
Finding a pissed off creepy La Taupe that
teleports.
The ceiling cracked with loose stones falling
on the ground.
La Taupe eerily saying the only way out of
the catacombs is to go further down.
Having to rappel down a well without proper
gear or training.
They aren’t wearing gloves, they don’t
have proper descenders with auto-stop mechanisms,
they are rappelling multiple people down the
well simultaneously.
God damn Benji is a liability.
Descenders would have prevented Benji from
an uncontrolled fall, gloves would’ve prevented
his hands from serious abrasions, and going
one at a time would’ve prevented George
from receiving Benji’s Diving Hurricanrana.
(wrestling scene)
Everyone randomly going deaf.
A demonic earthquake.
A ghost child.
Egyptian padlocks that kill you Indian Jones
style.
Great so there are ancient booby traps too.
They correctly solve the riddle, which unlocks
the Egyption padlock, revealing a secret passageway.
Why the fuck are ancient civilizations so
cryptic with these riddles, “The winged
vulture is the bright light in the seventh
hour of the moonlight's gaze upon a virgin
goat”.
My security phrases are more like, what’s
your dog’s name?
Old dead guy in a tomb whose body hasn't rotted
for some mysterious reason.
Having to cave dive in uncharted underwater
catacomb tunnels with no gear.
Random treasures next to lit fires.
Okay, that’s 12 right there, I think by
now you’d have ample evidence to suggest
backing the fuck out of the evil tunnel, and
just waiting for someone to hopefully rescue
you.
You should be able to survive for long enough
by drinking tunnel water and eating Benji.
I’m sorry guys, you should have known I'd
bring up cannibalism.
They find the philosopher's stone, but it
too is booby trapped.
And the ceiling collapses when Papi’s crew
tries to jack the treasure.
How has nobody been killed yet, it’s honestly
a miracle.
This kind of shit is why you’d want to be
wearing a helmet, any of those falling stones
easily could have killed them.
Their luck has to be running out here.
Suoxie’s arm gets smashed, but Scarlett
applies some stone dust which magically heals
it.
Unfortunately, La Taupe was cut off from the
group.
They don’t attempt a rescue for fear of
risking further collapse.
I feel sorry for La Taupe, that’s the second
time he was left behind by Papi.
Scarlett solves the most important riddle
of the movie.
Which reveals another secret passageway below
them.
They toss the rope down the shaft and make
their descent.
The rope grinding on the edge of the rock
is not good.
They need to use a rope protector to reduce
friction between the rope and the jagged edge
so the rope doesn’t get sheared in half
leaving them stranded.
Nothing has deterred the group thus far, and
it’s not like they have any other option
at this point.
It’s like Churchill said, if you’re going
through hell, keep going.
Except I think he was speaking metaphorically,
while they are literally going into hell.
I think Churchill would have advised them
to not enter literal hell since they have
a choice.
Dude, Benji bitched about rats, but when Scarlett
mentions walking through the gates of hell,
he doesn’t voice any concern.
There’s no backing out now, as the entrance
was sealed behind them.
You’ve been saying that same stupid phrase
this whole expedition, and each time things
got markedly worse.
They find La Taupe, only this time he wasn't
as forgiving as the first time Papi left him.
Scarlett tries shaving some stone dust onto
Souxie’s caved in face, which surprisingly
didn't work.
More red flags pop up like a random noose
and a baby crying.
It was a baby crying, are you expecting a
response to your question.
Not only that, but you’re in hell and it’s
obviously a demonic apparition.
Come on.
Benji forgot his auto-stop descender again,
and when the cult chick jumpscares him, he
falls to his death.
This guy really sucks at rappelling.
Sigh.
George's see’s his deceased brother underwater
and flips out trying to save him, but his
ghost disappears.
Hell puts on a little reunion for Papi and
his friend who he presumably killed in some
accident.
Papi isn’t as lucky as George, and while
screaming it wasn’t his fault, he gets pulled
into the burning car before it vanishes in
thin air.
I’m pretty sure he died because he didn’t
take extreme ownership of the accident.
Okay, I seriously think Scarlett watched way
too many motivational videos with Rocky Balboa.
They ‘keep moving forward’ because that’s
been working so well for them, and they run
into the fucking grim reaper.
That's what you get for shining a flashlight
in his face while he's trying to sleep.
It’s hard enough to catch some z’s with
the wall people moaning and whining.
Zed’s doing a great job of keeping the main
protagonists centered in frame.
Excellent camerawork.
George gets his neck ripped open by the wall
people, and Scarlett tries to use the immortality
stone again, to no avail.
For all the hype around this stone, it actually
kind of sucks.
George mutters something about vitriol, rectifying,
hidden stones, I don’t know but Scarlett
bolts off, leaving Zed holding a dirty shirt
against Georges open neck wound.
She jukes one cave demon, brutally stiff-arms
another, bare-handedly ascends the rope Benji
fell from, traverses the pit of blood filled
with creepy crawlers, slips past her own undead
corpse hanging from the ceiling, and returns
the ruby to its rightful place.
This is like Hell’s version of Ninja Warrior.
The whole, As Above, So Below epiphany hits
her.
The devil just needed a hug to stop the violence,
and the only thing she has to fear is fear
itself.
She returns to the hangman, which was actually
her dad.
She hugs him and makes amends, which resolves
her inner conflict, ending the nightmare.
Scarlett does some Trinity shit to bring back
George.
Where the stone failed, love prevailed.
So deep.
I was thinking go back to back, but sure,
your mystical intuition seems to finally be
paying off, so lets do it.
Well the catacombs do interconnect with the
subway system in some areas, just kidding
they survive it.
They open a manhole cover and Scarlett pops
out and gets run over by a truck.
Joking again but seriously she exited feet
first without checking if a car was coming,
it easily could have happened.
I’m honestly shocked that zed didn’t die,
but like so many people mentioned in the comments
of my previous videos, he was holding the
main camera.
The movie ends with Zed, George, and Scarlett
all severely crippled with PTSD and survivors
guilt for the rest of their lives, but having
learned a moral lesson about rectifying your
sins.
Let’s recap whose lives we could’ve saved,
and whose death was inevitable.
With the proper gear and training I think
that everyone could have survived.
The most important thing they easily could’ve
done is to use line markers and let a trusted
person know where they were going and when
they should be back.
These single-handedly would’ve enabled them
to chill at the collapsed tunnel and wait
for help.
From the moment the tunnel collapsed behind
Benji, all the way up to them passing through
the gates of hell with La Taupe fuck-starting
Souxie’s head, they were given every warning
and every chance to backout and wait for help.
It became so obvious that they were going
to get themselves killed that it almost seemed
miraculous nobody had died up until that point.
So Scarlett, George, Benji, Papi, Souxie,
and Zed would all survive.
I don’t know what the hell was wrong with
La Taupe, but i’m pretty sure he was already
dead.
Overall, I’d say this situation was pretty
beatable.
Thanks for watching, and remember, don’t
follow your Lara Croft, Indiana Jones wannabe
friends into the gates of hell .